so the trick about vitamin D is it's
actually more of a hormone that it is a
vitamin you want to think about it in
that way our body can make vitamin D
when it has adequate exposure to the Sun
so we don't necessarily need to ingest
it but because we're all afraid of skin
cancer
we put sunscreen on our skin and then
that blocks our ability to make vitamin
D so many Americans are deficient and
vitamin D and don't even know it so a
lot of times when people are thinking
about taking supplements they'll hear
the advice that they should get these
nutrients from their diet and ideally
you would if we lived in a perfect world
we would all eat really healthy diets
that were rich in fruits and vegetables
that came from wonderful soil that
allowed them to grow their nutrients
optimally unfortunately most Americans
don't eat an adequate amount of fruits
and vegetables and perhaps the ones that
they eat are not nearly as healthy as
they were when our ancestors used to go
and pluck them from their gardens and
from their fruit trees many people will
choose to take a supplement that
contains omega-3 most commonly fish oil
and this is to balance out their diet so
most of us think of omega-3 as being
beneficial to the heart really
protecting you from having heart attacks
but we know too that omega-3 is a
anti-inflammatory so it can help in
other ways as well multivitamins are the
most commonly ingested supplement here
in the United States and for good reason
we'd like to think that all our
nutrients come from our diets but since
they don't always it can be good to have
a multivitamin on board especially as we
go into the winter months where maybe
you're traveling or you're getting colds
and flus or you're eating foods around
the holidays and events like that I
think a multivitamin is a really good
idea the most important thing about a
multivitamin is you choose one that's
well matched to you so sex specific take
a woman's formula or a men's formula
take a fifty plus formula if that fits
you and I would highly encourage people
to look down the list of ingredients and
make sure that they have around 100
percent of the RDA for each of the
components certainly not much much more
than
that a lot of people have trouble taking
multivitamins because they're so big and
one trick for that is to look for one
that's low in calcium because that's the
biggest component and then the pill will
be smaller
I think of multivitamins as being a seat
belt it doesn't replace safe driving
like a healthy diet but it is kind of
that safety mechanism that could be
added on board to support your immune
system and overall health in general
antioxidants are a little controversial
they're very wonderful when they come in
food so we think of antioxidant foods
like the dark berries for example and
people should eat those as much as they
would like but regarding antioxidant
supplements there can be some toxicity
associated so particularly if you look
at very high doses of some of the forms
of vitamin A and vitamin E they're even
associated with an increased risk of
death so I avoid antioxidants in general
I do recommend vitamin C for patients
who are starting to have colds or flu
symptoms I think that earlier the better
while the science isn't very strong for
that that's a very traditional use of
vitamin C and something I use myself so
the USP the United States pharmacopoeia
has created a seal and there aren't a
large percentage of the total
supplements on the market who have
achieved that seal but if you see the
USP seal you know the supplement you're
taking has what it says it has in it and
you can take that with confidence